In this video, we'll cover
parameter properties.
So TypeScript offers a shortcut syntax
for creating constructors.
It helps to minimize some of the boilerplate code
for constructors and also for defining
and assigning properties.
So let's take a look at the traditional approach
of creating a constructor.
So we have a constructor, we have two params coming in.
And then inside of the constructor we assign those params
to the given properties.
But TypeScript offers a really cool shortcut
and we'll take a look at it.
So here's the traditional approach on the left-hand side.
And then here's the short cut.
So notice here we have these parameter properties.
So for our constructor, we have our two parameters
but note the access modifier.
So we have private _firstName comma private _lastName.
So what this does is basically defines the properties
and also assigns them at the same time.
So this minimizes the boilerplate coding.
Doing a comparison here, we see the traditional
approach on the left-hand side and then this short cut here,
we're using parameter properties so this is effectively
the same level of coding.
So by using the parameter properties,
you get this same functionality in the background.
So you get the properties defined and also assigning
the properties automagically.
So it makes your life a little bit easier
when it comes to setting up your class.
I really like this feature.
Alrighty, now let's take a look at
parameter properties in action.
So here is our class customer with our constructor
using parameter properties.
And so again, remember, it defines the properties
and assigns them automagically,
minimizes that boilerplate coding,
and then we simply use it.
And so to the program that uses this class,
everything else works the same.
There's nothing different.
So we simply create a new instance,
we pass in the first name last name,
we can access properties, so on and so forth.
So everything else works fine.
The only difference here is that
for the actual customer class and when we define it
or create it, we can make use of the parameter properties
and save on some of the boilerplate coding.
So it just makes our life a little bit easier.
Okay great, so let's go ahead and move into our IDE
and let's test out this coding.
Okay so let's get started.
Again, the first thing we want to is some housekeeping work,
just copy pasting our previous project.
And I'll rename the project to 04-parameter-properties.
Alrighty so let's go ahead and open up the customer.ts file
in our 04-parameter-properties folder.
So we'll remove the traditional coding for the constructor
and make use of parameter properties, that nice shortcut
to help minimize that boilerplate code.
All right so I'll just grab this property here
for first name, and I'll cut it,
and I'll replace the param there.
So this is then going to be a parameter property.
And I'll do a similar thing here for private last names,
just cut that portion, and then paste it right here.
And then I'll clean up lines three and four
and then the internal assignments, no need to do that,
because we're making use of parameter properties.
All of that work happens behind the scenes by TypeScript.
It's all done automagically.
I love it.
So this is the old code here in white,
and then what we have in our editor, that's the new code
using parameter properties shortcut.
And I'll move down here so we have our constructor,
that's fine, I'll get ride of lines 26 and 27.
They don't really apply to this example.
Let's just open up a terminal window
and let's move into that directory
for 04-parameter-properties.
And the first thing I would do here is
I'll simply do a clean, just so I can remove
some of the old javascript codes,
so I'll say tsc --build --clean.
And that'll remove the .js files there.
Okay, good.
And now I'll simply do a normal tsc to compile the code.
And now we can go ahead and run the code.
We'll get the same output as before
because we're constructing this object
using parameter properties.
So the only difference here is that we kind of
cleaned up some of our coding.
We got rid of the traditional constructor code,
and we made use of the parameter properties,
that nice TypeScript shortcut.